Welcome to the documentation coding example for the linear regression section of the course.
While it may not be super interesting understanding how to read and re-applied documentation examples
will rapidly speed up your own learning process.
Let's walk through the linear regression documentation example together in the browser I'm about to
jump to.
I'm going to have several tabs open.
Those are going to include the documentation page.
The data page from the documentation linear regression example the IPY and B that's the notebook file
for what we're actually going to be going through.
And then they knew untitled notebook which is where I'm going to be coding in for this lecture.
Let's hop over to the browser and get started.
All right.
So here I am at M-L guy.
This is the machine learning library documentation Guide page.
If you come over here to classification or regression and click on that you'll be taken to this page
and then scroll down until you find the linear regression.
Click on that and this is the documentation example we're going to be working through.
Click over here on Python.
There it is the documentation example.
It's pretty simple so the main idea here is to try to get an idea of the workflow for dealing with machine
learning algorithms with SPARC.
And we're also going to expand on this documentation example just a little bit if you come to in your
notes for the course Python SPARC for big data SPARC for machine learning and then the linear regression
folder the notebook that has everything that we're going to be working through is linear regression
exampled IPY and B.
So that's over here.
If I click it open you can see that there are some text notes and then all the code in case you ever
want to reference anything that we're doing you can just copy and paste from this notebook.
And then if we come back here we also have the sample in the regression data text.
That's the actual documentation text file.
And I've already downloaded for you.
Looks like this.
So this is the actual text file We're going to be working with.
So let's hop over to this new notebook that's untitled and get started.
So the very first thing we need to do is actually start a session that will say from Paice spark that
sequel import the spark session and let's create it will say Sparke session builder app and I'm just
doing tab there to quickly autocomplete that I'll create one called L-R X and then I'm going to get
or create that spark session hit run.
And then whenever you're working with machine learning with my Sparke what you end up doing is you say
from Paice park M-L dot and then if you hit tab here you essentially see the families of machine learning
that is available to you so classification clustering evaluation pipelines et cetera we're going to
be dealing with the regression family and then I'm going to import an actual regression algorithm if
you hit tab you'll see various options here but we'll eventually just choose linear regression so run
that the next step is to actually load in our training data.
So I'm going to make training a new variable and they'll say Sparke read it.
Now we've read in CXXVI files and Jason files we're going to say that format which is the generalized
version instead of passing in V.
The actual data is in this form called lib SVM.
So if you look at the data the actual page I have it open on you can see here we have this lib SVM format.
So this is the format itself.
So that's where you have to read it this way and I'm going to say lib SVM and then load the actual text
file.
So sample any regression data.
So we run that.
And let's actually see what the data looks like.
So we have a label column and a features column and this is the actual format Sparke needs in order
to run a machine learning algorithm on it.
Now in real life most of your data isn't already going to be conveniently formatted this way.
But we'll discuss that in the next lecture.
Will we do a code along through a more realistic dataset.
But all the documentation examples come with data that's already formatted this way for you.
But keep in mind that Slagle column needs to have some sort of numerical label and that will be either
a regression numerical value or a numerical value that matches a classification grouping.
The feature column has inside of a vector and that's a vector of all the features that belong to that
row.
Usually what we end up doing is combining the various feature columns in a realistic dataset into that
single features column using the data transformations that we're going to be learning about later on.
And let's continue working through this simple example.
The next thing you want to do is actually create an instance of our model.
So we say L-R is equal to linear regression and then close parentheses for the very basics.
But I want to talk about three parameters.
And those are the lips features call parameter which tells this model.
What is the features column called now by default.
This is just features that in case you forget that and you actually call this something else maybe call
it my features or house features etc. you can just pass that in as a name to be expected.
So default is features so I'll leave that in the label column name that we expect is label again that's
the label column here.
And then the last argument we can provide is the prediction column and what's the name of the actual
predictions.
So default is prediction.
But again if you're dealing in something like housing prices you could say oh house price prediction
here.
So once we actually evaluate some data and it has some predictive values it will label that under a
column called prediction so we'll run that.
And then the next step is to actually just fit or train the model.
So we will say our model.
So that's just some variable and we'll say L-R fit and we're going to fit onto the training data and
this should actually probably be snake casing but for now we'll just leave it that way.
And that may take a little bit of time.
The pinning on how Fasher computer is especially how fast the or how large the data is that we're working
with is that here we have L.R. model and it's been fit to the training data.
So now there's a lot of information we can grab off this model.
So I can say L.R. model in fact actually grab the coefficients off the model does that the coefficient
for that linear regression and I can also grab the intercept and say intercept and grab that intercept.
So if in case you're interested in how these coefficients actually relate to the model sensor these
coefficients correspond to a particular feature and you can do the reading an introduction to the learning
case you want to learn more about the mathematics behind relating coefficient to something like feature
importance.
All right.
Now let's talk about the summary attribute which contains even more information.
For this I'll create a variable called training summary and I will set it equal to the summary attribute
on this machine learning model.
And from this training summary I can call lots of attributes and methods that are really useful.
So for example I can call the R-squared value where R-squared just explains or tells you how much variance
is explained by your model.
This data is kind of wacky.
So we actually don't get every great art squared value but keep that in mind that that's available to
you.
And then more conventional things like root mean squared error that's also available to basically any
general any regression error metric is here available for you.
Now we've actually committed kind of a big mistake.
We never really separated our data into a training set and a test set.
And the reason for that is because the documentation kind of glosses over that and never actually does
it.
So what we ended up doing right now is we trained them on all our available data.
That's something we certainly actually want to avoid doing.
Instead we wanted to train to split that we discussed during the introduction to machine learning.
We want to train on some training data and then evaluate our model on that actual test data.
So let's show you how you can actually do a train test split I'm going to create a variable called all
data and say spark read.
And I'm actually going to read the exact same data in.
I'm just calling all data now.
So this is kind of a more realistic situation.
All right.
So let's imagine that we just pulled in all that data.
Now how do we actually split that data into some training data and some test data.
We do that is by calling random split and that's actually a method available on any data frame.
So we say all data
random split should be lower case and then inside of this you pasan a list and the list just dictates
how the split is done.
So the first item or first data frame out will have 70 percent of the data.
The second data frame out we'll have 30 percent.
So let me kind of do a little example here.
I'll call this split object.
The results of this and now check out the split object.
What does it actually look like.
Well it's actually a list of two data frames where the first data frame in this list has 70 percent
of the data of all that data.
And the second data frame in the list has 30 percent of all that data.
So usually However you won't put this in a split object.
Instead you'll do a little tuple and packing and you'll say train data test data.
So now I dictate that.
Spell that wrong.
Now dictate that train data is 70 percent of all this data and that data is 30 percent and this is randomly
split for you so you don't need to worry about that.
Well you don't want to do is just grab the top 70 percent in the bottom 30 percent in case by accident
your data has been sorted.
But instead you actually just want to randomly grab 70 percent of values stick to training at 30 percent
of values and that's taken to test data.
So let's run this.
And now we're going to be doing is working off that train data and that test data.
So again this is just if we kind of show this again this is wups a spell that again.
There we go.
This is just the actual label and feature.
So this looks exactly like the data we had before.
But if we take a look at describe show.
Note that the training data has 349 count.
If I look at the test data.
So I say this scribe show off of that this has a 152.
So 30 percent is the test say the 70 percent of it goes to training OK let's continue on and she had
actually all of these.
So we can do is let's create a new model we'll call this correct model and I'm going to fit it to that
training data.
And then once that is done running.
Now I actually want to evaluate how well my model did not on training data but instead on that test
data.
So what I end up doing is say test results is equal to that correct model.
And I call the evaluate method for this.
And inside of that evaluate method I pass in test data and if these test results I can grab anything
I want so I can grab those residuals and show the actual residuals between what the model expected versus
the labels that actually knew for the test data.
Or it could do things like the root mean squared error and then it gives me that back as well.
So what's the difference between what we just did versus what we did before.
Well in our case using evaluate on the test data it means that we're actually comparing our predictions
to the labels that were already assigned in the test data.
So you did this a couple of times maybe adding more parameters into the linear regression model.
So if you come back up here when you actually created that model.
So if we come up to L.R. model Ellar here.
So linear regression to kick Khama there's actually other things like elastic net parameters that intercept
Max iteration regularisation parameters a lot more stuff that we can discuss later on.
But basically the next step after you do that is to try to mess around those parameters see what works
see what doesn't and then reiterate on this process until you have a model that you feel comfortable
with.
Once you do that the models are ready for deployment.
Now you usually deploy your model on data that has no label Otherwise what would be the point in the
plane the model.
If you already had the label so it's kind of mimic that by creating a object called unlabeled data.
And I'm going to set it equal to the test data and I'm going to select features.
So if I look at this unlabeled data if I just show it here.
Note that it's only the features column.
So this doesn't have any actual labels so this is essentially unlabeled data.
And our model is ready to be deployed on this unlabeled data.
So now we're ready for example to predict on housing prices for houses that we don't have a price for
yet.
So we come down here and then what we're going to end up doing is we use the transform method so I'll
create a data frame called predictions.
I call my correct in model I say transform and I transform on that unlabeled data.
So instead of evaluating now I can transform and then if I check up predictions I have features and
prediction.
And now this is the predicted value based off of these features and there's no way I can really evaluate
this as far as r squared or stuff like that or the root mean square error because the state was unable
to begin with.
So I have nothing to really have no correct values to compare it to.
That's the kind of thing I had to take care of back when I had the test data.
So this kind of on the model deployment phase.
All right.
So hopefully that gave you an idea of how the actual workflow for the machine learning algorithm was
Sparke is intended to be used.
Don't worry if you didn't catch every single detail we're going to be working on a much more realistic
example.
Up next and that realistic example help your mind kind of connect features to actual things in real
life.
So I hope you understood the general workflow just the general idea of how things are done here in the
next lecture we're going to clarify a lot of this and also show you some preprocessing steps.
They probably have to run into in the real world.
Thanks and I'll see at the next lecture.